Update ADR8 (#4631)
cosmos/ibc-go: docs/architecture/adr-008-app-caller-cbs.md

type PacketActor interface {
    // OnSendPacket will be called on the IBCActor after the IBC application SendPacket handler is run
    OnSendPacket(
        ctx sdk.Context,
        sourcePort string,
        sourceChannel string,
        timeoutHeight clienttypes.Height,
        timeoutTimestamp uint64,
        data []byte,
    ) (uint64, error)

    // OnRecvPacket will be called on the IBCActor after the IBC Application
    // handles the RecvPacket callback if the packet has an IBC Actor as a receiver.
    OnRecvPacket(ctx sdk.Context, packet channeltypes.Packet, relayer sdk.AccAddress) ibcexported.Acknowledgement

    // OnAcknowledgementPacket will be called on the IBC Actor
    // after the IBC Application handles its own OnAcknowledgementPacket callback
    OnAcknowledgmentPacket(
        ctx sdk.Context,
        packet channeltypes.Packet,
        ack []byte,
        relayer sdk.AccAddress,
    ) error

    // OnTimeoutPacket will be called on the IBC Actor
    // after the IBC Application handles its own OnTimeoutPacket callback
    OnTimeoutPacket(
        ctx sdk.Context,
        packet channeltypes.Packet,
        relayer sdk.AccAddress,
    ) error
}

> ```

Author: Sorry this is from before removed and simplified decision

	// The contract is expected to handle the callback within the user defined gas limit, and handle any errors,
	// out of gas, or panics gracefully.
	// This entry point is called with a cached context. If an error is returned, then the changes in
	// this context will not be persisted, but the packet lifecycle will not be blocked.
	IBCReceivePacketCallback(
		cachedCtx sdk.Context,
		packet ibcexported.PacketI,
		ack ibcexported.Acknowledgement,
		contractAddress string,
	) error
}
```

### PacketCallbacks

The packet callbacks implemented in the middleware will first call the underlying application and then route to the IBC actor callback in the post-processing step. 
It will extract the callback data from the application packet and set the callback gas meter depending on the global limit, the user limit, and the gas left in the transaction gas meter. 
The callback will then be routed through the callback keeper which will either panic or return a result (success or failure). In the event of a panic or an error, the callback state changes 
are discarded and the transaction is committed.

> If the transaction runs out of gas because the relayer-defined limit was exceeded the entire transaction is reverted to allow for resubmission. If the chain-defined or user-defined gas limit is reached, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the transaction runs out of gas while `ExecutionGasLimit < CommitGasLimit` the entire transaction is reverted to allow for resubmission. If the chain-defined or user-defined gas limit is reached, 
```

Author: would prefer leaving as-is, since its an English explanation for the inequality

Author: Ok I've clarified. I still prefer not just repeating the inequality but explaining what it means so that its clearer to readers why its architected this way. Rather than just being like ok this is how it works without understanding the rationale behind the inequality

> the callback state changes are reverted and the transaction is committed.

Author: The panic/revert/commit behavior is the part I need double checked specifically. @srdtrk

		}

		// if the callback ran out of gas and the relayer has not reserved enough gas, then revert the state
		if cachedCtx.GasMeter().IsPastLimit() {
			if callbackData.AllowRetry() {
				panic(storetypes.ErrorOutOfGas{Descriptor: fmt.Sprintf("ibc %s callback out of gas; commitGasLimit: %d", callbackType, callbackData.CommitGasLimit)})
			}
			err = errorsmod.Wrapf(types.ErrCallbackOutOfGas, "ibc %s callback out of gas", callbackType)
		}

		// allow the transaction to be committed, continuing the packet lifecycle
	}()

	err = callbackExecutor(cachedCtx)
	if err == nil {
		writeFn()
	}

	return err
}
```

Chains are expected to specify a `chainDefinedActorCallbackLimit` to ensure that callbacks do not consume an arbitrary amount of gas. Thus, it should always be possible for a relayer to complete the packet lifecycle even if the actor callbacks cannot run successfully.

## Consequences

### Positive

- IBC Actors can now programatically execute logic that involves sending a packet and then performing some additional logic once the packet lifecycle is complete
- Middleware implementing ADR-8 can be generally used for any application

> - Leverages the same callback architecture used between core IBC and IBC applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Leverages a similar callback architecture to the one used between core IBC and IBC applications
```

Author: why similar and not same?

Reviewer: Because they don't use the same interfaces to make the callback (which would be `IBCModule`). Instead, we use `ContractKeeper` which is missing some channel lifetime event callbacks and some parameters. 

Also, the IBC application callback erroring out means that the packet lifecycle is blocked. This is not the case for adr8

### Negative

- Callbacks may now have unbounded gas consumption since the actor may execute arbitrary logic. Chains implementing this feature should take care to place limitations on how much gas an actor callback can consume.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The relayer pays for the callback gas instead of the IBCActor

```

### Neutral

> - Application packets that want to support ADR-8 must additionally have their packet data implement the `CallbackPacketData` interface and register their implementation on the chain codec

Reviewer: I wrote about this earlier.

}

// PacketDataProvider defines an optional interfaces for retrieving custom packet data stored on behalf of another application.
// An existing problem in the IBC middleware design is the inability for a middleware to define its own packet data type and insert packet sender provided information.
// A short term solution was introduced into several application's packet data to utilize a memo field to carry this information on behalf of another application.
// This interfaces standardizes that behaviour. Upon realization of the ability for middleware's to define their own packet data types, this interface will be deprecated and removed with time.
type PacketDataProvider interface {
	// GetCustomPacketData returns the packet data held on behalf of another application.
	// The name the information is stored under should be provided as the key.
	// If no custom packet data exists for the key, nil should be returned.
	GetCustomPacketData(key string) interface{}
}
```

The callback data can be embedded in an application packet by providing custom packet data for source and destination callback datain the custom packet data under the appropriate key.

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```jsonc
```

	cachedCtx = cachedCtx.WithGasMeter(storetypes.NewGasMeter(callbackData.ExecutionGasLimit))

	defer func() {
		// consume the minimum of g.consumed and g.limit
		ctx.GasMeter().ConsumeGas(cachedCtx.GasMeter().GasConsumedToLimit(), fmt.Sprintf("ibc %s callback", callbackType))

		// recover from all panics except during SendPacket callbacks
		if r := recover(); r != nil {
			if callbackType == types.CallbackTypeSendPacket {
				panic(r)
			}
			err = errorsmod.Wrapf(types.ErrCallbackPanic, "ibc %s callback panicked with: %v", callbackType, r)
		}

		// if the callback ran out of gas and the relayer has not reserved enough gas, then revert the state
		if cachedCtx.GasMeter().IsPastLimit() {
			if callbackData.AllowRetry() {
				panic(storetypes.ErrorOutOfGas{Descriptor: fmt.Sprintf("ibc %s callback out of gas; commitGasLimit: %d", callbackType, callbackData.CommitGasLimit)})
			}
			err = errorsmod.Wrapf(types.ErrCallbackOutOfGas, "ibc %s callback out of gas", callbackType)
		}

		// allow the transaction to be committed, continuing the packet lifecycle
	}()

	err = callbackExecutor(cachedCtx)
	if err == nil {
		writeFn()
	}

	return err
}
```

> Chains are expected to specify a `chainDefinedActorCallbackLimit` to ensure that callbacks do not consume an arbitrary amount of gas. Thus, it should always be possible for a relayer to complete the packet lifecycle even if the actor callbacks cannot run successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chains are expected to specify a `maxCallbackGas` to ensure that callbacks do not consume an arbitrary amount of gas. Thus, it should always be possible for a relayer to complete the packet lifecycle even if the actor callbacks cannot run successfully.
```

I don't have strong feelings about this

## Consequences

### Positive

- IBC Actors can now programatically execute logic that involves sending a packet and then performing some additional logic once the packet lifecycle is complete
- Middleware implementing ADR-8 can be generally used for any application
- Leverages a similar callback architecture to the one used between core IBC and IBC applications

### Negative

- Callbacks may now have unbounded gas consumption since the actor may execute arbitrary logic. Chains implementing this feature should take care to place limitations on how much gas an actor callback can consume.
- The relayer pays for the callback gas instead of the IBCActor

### Neutral

- Application packets that want to support ADR-8 must additionally have their packet data implement `PacketDataProvider` and `PacketData` interfaces.
- Applications must implement `PacketDataUnmarshaler` interface

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Callback receiving module must implement the `ContractKeeper` interface

```
